And I think it was a grave mistake for these
fraternities to exist on this campus. In your
student days there was a bonfire. Yes. Describe if
you were... We used to go out and gather all kinds of
trash. And we go to these, they had a lot of sawmills
around here. And they'd always keep the trash for
us. They knew we were gonna come after it. So we'd
get the trucks and we'd pick up all that stuff and we
laid it out. We didn't build it up. And they were
delighted to have you all haul it away. Oh, yes. And
we built it up just about the size of the height of a
person. And we started off way up here, as high as we
can. And we'd diminish it down below. And then we'd
start the fire from going down below and let it go
all the way up. I had a great time. About how long did
you all work on it? A week or a month? Oh, maybe a
couple of weeks. But when I saw that 110 bonfire
that I came here and I saw that with that outhouse on
top, you know, I didn't laugh. I did not laugh. I
said, this is dangerous. Did y'all put an outhouse
on bonfire when you were here? No, we didn't. We
didn't do anything like that. And did almost
everybody work on bonfire then? Well, I would say
it was a freshman deal more than anything else, but
everybody really did work on it. And it was on the
drill field? It was on the drill field. Then did
y'all have yell practices? Oh, yes, we had yell
practice. We didn't have midnight yell practice.
We had yell practice, but it was all done before the
game or something like that. And if it were a night
game, I would have it before the game. And was Yale
practice held on the steps of the Y? Steps of the Y,
that's right. Did y'all throw Yale leaders in the
fish pond? No, I don't think we did anything like
that. Were they called Yale leaders? Yes. And did
y'all have hand signals? Oh yes, same thing we got
now. What was your favorite Yale? Did you have a
favorite? Oh no, all of them were good. You know the
spirit of Aggieland came in way after I graduated.
We had the hullabaloo, connect, connect, we had
the band playing songs and so forth. We didn't have
too many. Did you all talk about the twelfth man?
12th man came in in 1921, wasn't it? 21, 22. The 12th
man was betrayed, but not like he's betrayed now.
How was he betrayed then? Just as a reference.
The games were played at Kyle Field. Did just about
everybody in the community go to the games? I think
so. I worked 25 cents an hour when I was a freshman
laying the seats to the new Kyle Field.
I laid a lot of seats. Now, originally the stadium
was part of Dean Kyle's agricultural area. Yeah.
Were there any ag fields down in that part of the
campus still when you got here? No. It was just Kyle
Field. Where was the baseball stadium then? Or
baseball diamond I should say. Baseball diamond
was adjacent to Kyle Field as I recall. They just
had a little stand up that wouldn't hold 100
people. And basketball was Basketball was in the,
in that,
what's the name of it? I want to say Downs Notatory,
but that's not the right name. Basketball was. Did
you and your buddies go to basketball games? Oh,
yes. Did y'all make a lot of noise? Oh, we always
made noise. Who were the favorite opponents then
in athletics? Well, I was on the freshman baseball
team, and I tell this story, which is funny in a way.
And we had a coach by the name of Bender, I think it
was. He was an Indian. Chief Bender, we'd call him.
So I was an outfielder, and I was fairly good. So I
told them, I said, Coach, I'm not going to come back
and play next year. Why? Well, my studies are
getting pretty hard. I don't have the time. So I
said, OK, all right. So we were playing TCU, the
last game. We had a man on second and a man on first.
And I said, he was looking for a pinch hitter. I
said, Coach, let me hit. I'll bring him in. Let me
hit.
And finally, he said, OK.
So to make a long story short, I struck out. Now he
was going this way to the TCU coach to say goodbye,
and I was coming this way back to the dugout. So we
met. He looked at me and he just used one word. He
said, shit.
So that was the end of your athletic career? That
was the end of my baseball career. Oh, I did. I went
out for track when I was a freshman. Was Andy
Anderson a... Andy Anderson. He was a coach, I
think. Track coach. Track. Describe him. Oh, he
was a different... He was a man that wasn't too big
by your size, I think. Nice guy? Great guy. Great
guy. See, he's the one that Coach Bible told in
Dallas... to go up in the stands and get to come down
and put on his uniform because he had played
football over at Mississippi College where they
had too many guys get hurt and Mississippi State
then beat them. And that's why Coach Bible wanted
him to put on the uniform. I remember whenever we
had a little track meet that hit those of us who were
runners. He'd get us underneath the stand and give
us a tablespoon full of honey. I mean it like that.
He said, he'll do it 10 minutes or 15 minutes before
he's supposed to run. He said, but that honey goes
into the system so fast. He said, it gives you
energy. Do you think it did? Sure it did. I still
believe it to this day. Whenever I have honey in my
office, whenever I have a downer, I fill that
field. After a day's work, I fill down. I take a
teaspoonful of honey. And that field house was
DeWare Field House, wasn't it? I think you're
right. Yeah, yeah,
yeah. Describe the Aggie band in that era, in your
student days. How big was it? What did it do? Oh, it
wasn't as big as it is now, of course, but it was
there. They did their job. Did you all respect
them? Oh, sure, we respected the band. Were they
called BQs then? I don't remember. See, later,
World War II, they're called BQs, band queers.
It's a strange kind of respect. No, we respected
the man. I don't think I ever heard anybody say
derogatory remark on the man. Among the students,
what was the most respected student body
leadership position? Corps Commander?
The Corps commander had a lot of leadership, you
might say, emulated leadership. But I think the
president of this class. Oh, really? Of the senior
class? Oh, yeah, president of the senior class.
I'm trying to think of his name.
Howe, Howe, H-O-W-E. Okay. Anyway, he would meet
with us. The corps commander didn't meet with you.
I see. Corps commander had to do his special work
and that is see to it that the military science and
tactics were taught and that discipline was
carried out and things like that. Did you all elect
the student? Oh yes, we elected them. Was it a show
of hands or a ballot? Now you got me there. I forgot.
And the corps commander was... I forgot. I forgot.
I don't think it was... I don't know. I don't know. I
can't answer that. Were there some... Were there
the sons of some famous Texans here when you were
here? Sons of rich Texans or important
politicians? There were a lot of rich Texans, sons
of rich Texans, but it's a funny thing about that.
Once the student has been described or dedicated
in a way that he was classified as wealthy. He
wasn't contacted too much.
Students stayed away from him because they
couldn't match his dollars. It's funny. The same
thing goes on today. Were there any Jewish
students here then? Oh yes. Were they accepted? I
know there were. There were no defamation taking
place. I don't think, you know, the whole time I was
here, the five years, I don't think that I heard
very much racial or any kind of defamation on
groups. We loved each other, you know. When you
only have 2,000 in the school, you're not going to
go around causing a lot of damage. About how many
students had a car?
Not many, and they could not park. They could not
park on the campus. No way. Where did they keep
their car? I don't know, but you couldn't park on
the campus. My senior year, I was able to buy one of
those Ford, flip one of those Fords. I remember
paying them $75, and I was going to pay them $375,
and I had to keep it outside the campus. You could
not keep a car on the campus. Have you heard that
before? No, I did not know that. You check it. So it
was a school rule. School rule that no student
could keep a car on the campus. Well, where did you
park your car then? I parked it outside. All right.
I found the place someplace and kept it outside
maybe without any cover, but you could not. I
remember that distinctly. Did you ever go to, was
it called the Quack Shack then? I don't remember
anything like that. The health center, what was
the campus medical service? Was there a doctor
here? Dr. Marsh? There was always a doctor here.
And where was his office? I think it was the
administration building. Oh, okay. Okay. Was the
Aggieland Inn built yet over at Northgate, a place
for people out of town to spend the night? No. No,
no. Where did a visitor stay when they came to? In
Bryan. In Bryan? Navasota, Hearn. We didn't have
anything around here. uh and uh most people
arrived at the college railroad station most of
them rode the train and a lot of them drove and
during the graduation then of course everybody
had were was permitted to park But I remember
distinctly, and I'd like for you to check that,
that you could not park any car, no student could
park any car on the campus.
Did you have any dates while you were a student? Oh,
yes. Where did you get those dates? Navasota,
Hearn, and Bryan. How did you make first contact
with them? Of course, during the freshman year, I
didn't do much of anything. I didn't have time. I
just worked, worked. Sophomore year, I was still
working. But anyway, I met people here and there.
And would somebody say something about going to
Hearn, that they had a little party, I'd go over
there. And if I met some young lady that I thought
might be interested in me, I made advances that
way. And in my senior year, I went with a nice lady
from Bryan. She was very beautiful. Where would
y'all go on a date? Well, they had places in Bryan
you could go to, a lot of places to eat. Were there
places to go dance? All the dances that were held
were held here. What were the big dances? A special
occasion, the ring dance was the biggest. And we
had some other... Boot dance? Had boot dance, ring
dance. And how were those dates treated at an A&M
dance? Oh, with great respect.
I don't think there's been any incident where a
young lady declared
abuse. I've never heard of any. Were there, did you
all have girls come down from CIA on the train? From
Denton? Oh man, I should say so. They'd come down
with them big time. And how did you get a date with
one of them in advance? Well, one of the students
would know somebody up there, and then that
student would get in touch with the woman he knows
up there, and she would bring just a friend of hers
down to meet you. And that's how it was. Did they
exchange pictures sometimes in advance? I don't
remember. Where did they stay when they were here,
those girls from out of town? Well, I forgot. Why in
the world did they stay? But I think they had a place
for them, designated. Well, I know in later years
they would vacate a dormitory. The guys would move
out and let the girls stay in one of the... I don't
know. You ask me a question, I don't know.
We're going to have to cut this now. All righty.
We'll stop right now. It's on. He realized that for
Texas A&M to grow and be respected throughout the
world, that it had to become a university. He also
realized that the only way it could become a
university, it had to go coeducational.
And so when he announced it, there was such a loud
noise against it that you wouldn't believe.
Practically every Aggie all over the world said,
this is crazy. What are you doing? This is a men's
school. Leave it alone.
And I would visit with him, and he'd say, you're
going to have to help me, Mike. You're going to have
to help me. He talked to these people. You know a lot
of them. Talk to them. We've got to get this
through. He was afraid that if he just voluntarily
said, this is the way it's going to be, It wouldn't
work like he wanted it. So he had a solicitation
program going. And I mean, I wasn't the only one.
There must have been, he must have selected, I
don't know how many. Talk about this thing. Talk
about it. And I remember talking to Aggies. and
Beaumont and Houston, Port Otta and elsewhere in
that area, and I would go visit and let them know
that this is very important. But even then, when it
looked like that it would be welcome, there were
still loud noises against it. You'd be surprised.
They didn't want to change it. They wanted to keep
it a men's school, and they wanted to keep it
military. But there was a lot of them at that time
were not military. That's broken off. I'm the one
that wrote the original report recommending
those changes to Mr. Rudder. Really? I was the
author of that report for the faculty and staff.
For core education? Yes, sir. And I now know when we
first turned it in, Mr. Rudder was afraid that he
couldn't make it happen. That was 61. Yes, sir. He
worked on it 61, 62, and then established it in 63.
That's right. I now know that one of the key, key
influences was Lyndon Baines Johnson. That
apparently, see when Mr. Rutter would go to
Washington to try to get money for A&M from the
federal government, He and Lyndon had known each
other well, and he had helped Lyndon in that 1948
Senate campaign in the Hill Country. And
apparently, this is circumstantial evidence of
what Mr. Rudder said here and there and there,
apparently Lyndon put his arm around him and said,
Earl, if you expect to keep coming to Washington to
get money out of the federal government from A&M,
you've got to get it growing. It's not growing. The
other schools are passing you by, and you're going
to be left out. You don't have a choice on
integration. The courts have already decided
that. Now, you better admit women because the
courts will probably do that. I'll back you. John
and Nellie Conley are close friends of your wife,
Margaret, all four years from the University of
Texas. He'll back you. Sterling Evans, he and I
have done some land deals together. Your board
chairman, he's been for coeducation since he was a
freshman there in 1917. He'll back you. Buck
Wirus. Yeah. Wirus will help you. Olin Teague,
your classmate, he'll back you. Jake Pickle,
congressman from Austin, you all have been
acquainted since you were eighth graders. He'll
back you. And another person that sometimes gets
left out is the state senator here, Bill Mohr. yeah
the bull of the brazos yeah i remember he was a
strong proponent for co-education yeah no i got a
lot of flack i was by being the junior member in
terms of rank i got to take the minutes and write the
report and my last conversation with mr rutter in
the spring of 1970 before his death i love to
describe it i'm in as chairman of the faculty
library committee begging for more money for the
library Mr. Rudder looked at me and he said, you
people always want more money for the library. Do
you think the students have read all the books
they've already got? And I laughed. And he said,
I'll do the best I can. Then I said, Mr. Rudder, you
remember that report I wrote? He said, oh, yes. I
said, only you could have made that happen. He
leaned back and grinned and said, why would you say
that? I said, sir, they couldn't say you weren't a
Texan, you weren't an Aggie, you hadn't been in the
Corps, you hadn't served your country, that you
didn't work hard, that you didn't have a good wife,
that you didn't know anybody in Austin or
Washington. And he leaned back and laughed and he
said, oh, I never thought of any of that. No, I think
that he was... Well, I'm glad to know that you had
something to do with it. Tell me, I hear or heard
rumors that at a region board meeting, there was
some knockdowns between the nine members on that.
Do you know what happened? I don't, but I
understand that Mr. Evans changed two or three
votes, that he got some people that were no, he
moved them to yes. And apparently they got some
phone calls from maybe John Connolly, that Mr.
Evans was a key person in that. uh a story that was
that was trying to i'll tell you right now i i would
go around saying god if this thing doesn't work oh
we'll never be it we'll never go anywhere in the
first draft i put a line that i took out in the final
draft i wish i'd left it in i said we are afraid if a m
doesn't make these changes it will end up being
like the citadel or vmi As small. That's right.
Military. Right. And as it is, we're a major league
player, no question about it. I love to tell the
story. Do you know Charlie Babcock? Beaumont?
Yes, sir. Absolutely. Okay. Charlie, he was a good
friend. And you remember, he was one of the
opponents. That's right, he was. He sent his ring
back. Wyra showed me his ring. He sent his ring back
and his diploma. He had been the secretary
treasurer of the Beaumont A&M Club for 30 years.
That's right. He resigned that. He said, I will
never, ever again attend anything related to A&M.
Well, he wrote so many letters, I thought he must be
a villain with thorns and a forked tail. I remember
that. I remember that. All right, the happy
ending. About five years after all of that, I'm to
speak at the Beaumont A&M Club on the 50th
anniversary of their never having missed a Monday
night. And they were going to honor him as the most
loyal, productive, most hardworking, and he had
said, I'm not coming. I told you, I'm not coming to
anything right at A&M. All right, I go over with
Buck Wirus on the A&M plane, and when we get to the
Harvest Club in Beaumont, where they were having
it, they said, Mr. Babcock's here. And I said, I
want to see that SOB. I want to see what he looks
like. Well, at the end of the whole evening, as a
total surprise, they said, now we'd like the
hardest working Aggie in this room to come up. Here
came Charlie Babcock, wasn't very big. No, no, he
wasn't. And they said, Charlie, we want to honor
you and thank you. We know how deeply you cared
about some of those things, but we hope you
understand the changes. They stood and cheered.
He walked to the microphone and started crying,
and I'll never forget what he said. Please forgive
me, ladies and gentlemen. I was wrong. All right,
as we're coming back on the plane, I said, Wyrus, I
don't understand this guy. I thought he was a
villain. Tell me about him. He said, well, he went
to A&M, he said he thought he majored in business,
went to work at the refinery. He didn't become
rich. He didn't become famous. But he was a nice
guy. His wife taught school. Their daughter died
one day on the school playground of an unexpected
heart problem. Then their son, while he was at A&M,
dies accidentally at summer camp at Fort Sill, And
then Wyra stopped, and I said, and you're going to
tell me he transferred the love he had for his
children to his alma mater, and he honestly,
sincerely thought A&M was making a mistake. Wyra
said, that's right. Yeah, he did. I said, I forgive
him. I forgive him. I remember Charlie. Oh, man.
It's funny you called his name. And the big joke
that night, what are the Greek names? Coconels.
Coconels. Janelle. That's right. Let's call them
Pete. That's right. Okay, the chairman, the
president of the Beaumont A&M Club that night in
talking about co-education, he said, now some of
you don't remember that they allowed, when we GIs
came back from World War II, our wives could go to
summer school. And tonight at supper, my wife told
me she only had 12 hours of credit at A&M, but that
she had more grade points than all the Coconos
brothers put together. Well, everybody stood up
and cheered.